## Docker structure

Docker is divided into many abstractions,
on this section you will learn more about each one.


### Docker vs VM's

Docker propose a way to segment the applications into isolated places, why is it interesting? It is interesting because it is exactly what whe want when creating VM's(Virtual Machines), the main difference is that docker do it with much less overhead. How? instead virtualize all hardware and load one SO for each VM, docker talks with the host kernel and put then self into a middleware between the application(container) and the kernel, the container comunicates with docker asking "hey, what processes are running" docker lies and just indicate the process that is running on container.
Every layer of docker has the same concept, so docker is really more faster than VM's and resource hungreless, despite it does not provide the same isolation of VM's.

## Abstrations

### Images

<strong>concept:</strong> image is a snapshot of the application<br>

### Containers
- What is it?<br>
it is not that simple, the concept of containers is simple, but it is hard to full understanding.

<strong>concept:</strong> container uses an image to run the application

### Images vs Containers

<strong>similarities:</strong> both contains the application<br>
<strong>differences:</strong> image is read only, container is read-write, container is runnable, image is buildable.

[recommended articles](https://phoenixnap.com/kb/docker-image-vs-container)

### Volumes

<strong>concept:</strong> volume is a place that hold the data generated by an application(container)

### Network

<strong>concept:</strong> network is the way that applications(containers) uses to communicate with each other.


## docker internally

### Docker engine



[recommended articles](https://blog.lsantos.dev/entendendo-runtimes-de-containers/)


